# Master's thesis
## Predicting Frictional Properties of Graphene Kirigami Using Molecular Dynamics and Neural Networks

This repository contains all related work for my Master's thesis for the completion of the degree Master in Computational Science: Materials Science at the University of Oslo.


### Abstract
Various theoretical models and experimental results propose different governing mechanisms for friction at the nanoscale. We consider a graphene sheet modified with Kirigami-inspired cuts and under the influence of strain. Prior research has demonstrated that this system exhibits out-of-plane buckling, which could result in a decrease in contact area when sliding on a substrate. According to asperity theory, this decrease in contact area is expected to lead to a reduction of friction. However, to the best of our knowledge, no previous studies have investigated the friction behavior of a nanoscale Kirigami graphene sheet under strain. Here we show that specific Kirigami designs yield a non-linear dependency between kinetic friction and the strain of the sheet. Using molecular dynamics simulations, we have found a non-monotonic increase in friction with strain. We found that the friction-strain relationship does not show any clear dependency on contact area which contradicts asperity theory. Our findings suggest that the effect is associated with the out-of-plane buckling of the graphene sheet and we attribute this to a commensurability effect. By mimicking a load-strain coupling through tension, we were able to utilize this effect to demonstrate a negative friction coefficient on the order of −0.3 for loads in the range of a few nN. In addition, we have attempted to use machine learning to capture the relationship between Kirigami designs, load, and strain, with the objective of performing an accelerated search for new designs. Although this approach yielded some promising results, we conclude that further improvements to the dataset are necessary in order to develop a reliable model. We anticipate our findings to be a starting point for further investigations of the underlying mechanism for the frictional behavior of a Kirigami sheet. For instance, the commensurability hypothesis could be examined by varying the sliding angle in simulations. We propose to use an active learning strategy to extend the dataset for the use of machine learning to assist these investigations. If successful, further studies can be done on the method of inverse design. In summary, our findings suggest that the application of nanoscale Kirigami can be promising for developing novel friction-control strategies.

### Structure
The thesis is found in [article](article)  
<!-- file is found in [article/main.pdf](article/main.pdf)... -->

The LAMMPS scripts for the friction simulation can be found in [friction_simulation](friction_simulation). The tools for creating Kirigami patterns are found in [config_builder](config_builder) and [graphene_sheet](graphene_sheet). The scripts for running multiple simulations with submission to a computer cluster via ssh connections are found in [simulation_manager](simulation_manager) and [data_pipeline](data_pipeline). Python scripts for analysing the data and producing the figures for the thesis are found in [analysis](analysis) and [produce_figures](produce_figures).